README.md, before:

# Setup (WIP)

## To run project locally

1. checkout project from vcs: `git clone git@gitlab.au.dk:fredagscafeen/web.git`
2. setup virtual env (commands should be run in project folder)
  1. `pip3 install pipenv`
  2. `pipenv install`

Installing the required psycopg2 package (PostgreSQL for Python) might require the `pg_config` binary,
which can be installed on Ubuntu with `sudo apt install libpq-dev`.

3. activate virtualenv: `pipenv shell`
4. migrate database: `./manage.py migrate`
5. create superuser: `./manage.py createsuperuser`
6. run server: `./manage.py runserver`

## Deploy changes

1. Add your SSH key to dokku: `ssh root@fredagscafeen.dk "dokku ssh-keys:add $USER" < ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`
2. Add dokku remote: `git remote add dokku dokku@fredagscafeen.dk:fredagscafeen.dk`
3. `git push dokku master`

## Setup admin user on server

1. ssh into server: `ssh root@fredagscafeen.dk`
2. create superuser: `dokku run fredagscafeen.dk ./manage.py createsuperuser`
3. login to admin interface: [https://fredagscafeen.dk/admin/](https://fredagscafeen.dk/admin/)

# Fully rebuilding dokku app

If `dokku ps:rebuild fredagscafeen.dk` does not fix your problem,
you can try to completely rebuild the app from scratch by running:

```sh
dokku apps:rename fredagscafeen.dk test.fredagscafeen.dk
dokku apps:rename test.fredagscafeen.dk fredagscafeen.dk
```

# LaTeX installation

This installs TeX Live full and makes it available to the dokku django instance:

```sh
export TEXLIVE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/var/lib/dokku/data/storage/fredagscafeen-media/texlive
rm -rf "$TEXLIVE_INSTALL_PREFIX"

cd /tmp
curl -L http://mirror.ctan.org/systems/texlive/tlnet/install-tl-unx.tar.gz -o install-tl.tar.gz
tar -xzf install-tl.tar.gz
cd install-tl-*
./install-tl -scheme full -profile /dev/null -repository https://ctan.mirror.norbert-ruehl.de/systems/texlive/tlnet/
```

We need to specify a mirror located in Germany (as the server) as otherwise it defaults to some Australian mirror.

# GitLab hook for automatically updating guide PDFs

To setup do the following for each repository {guides,vedtaegter}:

* Go to Settings -> Repository -> Deploy Tokens and generate a new token.
  * Concatenate the username and password as `<username>:<password>` and save it somewhere.
* Go to Settings -> Integrations and add a new webhook:
  * URL should be `https://fredagscafeen.dk/update_hook/`
  * Secret Token should be `<username>:<password>` that you generated earlier.
  * Click Add webhook.
  * Test it by clicking Test -> Push events. You should get either a HTTP 200 response or a `Net::ReadTimeout` error.

Every time a tex file for a guide is updated, the server will recompile it and update the hosted PDF.

# Remote server printing

## Diagram

```
+----------------------------------------------------+
| htlm5 server:                                      |
|                                                    |
| autossh -N -M 2244                                 |
|         -L 6631:localhost:631                      |
|         remoteprint@localhost                      |
|         -p 2222                          <-\       |
|         -v                                 |  ssh  |
|                                            |       |
|  +-----------------------------------------|---+   |
|  | dokku web instance:                     |   |   |
|  |                                             |   |
|  |                                             |   |
|  | ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no             |   |
|  |     -i media/id_rsa                         |   |
|  |     remoteprint_relay@fredagscafeen.dk      |   |
|  |     --                                      |   |
|  |     lpstat -h localhost:6631 -E -p          |   |
|  |                                             |   |
|  +---------------------------------------------+   |
+----------------------------------------------------+
                     ^
					 |
                     |
	   (reverse ssh port-forwarding)
	                 |
                     |
+----------------------------------------------+
| remote AU server:                            |
|                                              |
| autossh -N -M 2233                           |
|         -R 2222:localhost:22                 |
|         remoteprint_relay@fredagscafeen.dk   |
|         -v                                   |
|                                              |
+----------------------------------------------+
```

## Installing autossh and cups

```sh
apt install autossh cups
systemctl disable --now cups
systemctl disable --now cups-browsed
```

## Setting up the reverse tunnel and ssh keys

Open 3 terminal windows:
* One connected to the remote machine on AU's network (remote)
* One connected to htlm5 (htlm5)
* One connected to htlm5 and inside the dokku container: `dokku run fredagscafeen.dk bash` (dokku)

Then run the following commands in order:

remote:
```sh
sudo useradd -m remoteprint
sudo mkhomedir_helper remoteprint
sudo -u remoteprint ssh-keygen
sudo cat /home/remoteprint/.ssh/id_rsa.pub # Key remote
```

dokku:
```sh
mkdir media/ssh
ssh-keygen -f media/ssh/id_rsa
cat media/ssh/id_rsa.pub # Key client
```

htlm5:
```sh
useradd -m remoteprint_relay
mkhomedir_helper remoteprint_relay
sudo -u remoteprint_relay ssh-keygen
cat /home/remoteprint_relay/.ssh/id_rsa.pub # Key relay

sudo -u remoteprint_relay sh -c 'echo "<Key remote>" >> /home/remoteprint_relay/.ssh/authorized_keys'
cat fredagscafeen-media/ssh/id_rsa.pub | sudo -u remoteprint_relay sh -c 'cat >> /home/remoteprint_relay/.ssh/authorized_keys'
```

remote:
```sh
sudo -u remoteprint sh -c 'echo "<Key relay>" >> /home/remoteprint/.ssh/authorized_keys'
```

Check that the remote can connect to the relay by running the following on the remote:
```sh
sudo -u remoteprint /usr/bin/autossh -N -M 2233 -R 2222:localhost:22 remoteprint_relay@fredagscafeen.dk -v
```

Check that we can connect to the relay and it can connect to the remote by running the following in dokku:
```sh
ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no remoteprint_relay@fredagscafeen.dk -i media/ssh/id_rsa id
ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no remoteprint_relay@fredagscafeen.dk -i media/ssh/id_rsa ssh remoteprint@localhost -p 2222 id
```

Stop the `autossh` command on the remote and create the file `/etc/systemd/system/remoteprinter_autossh.service` containing:
```ini
[Unit]
Description=Keeps a reverse tunnel to fredagscafeen.dk open
After=network-online.target
After=ssh.service
After=org.cups.cupsd.service

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/bin/autossh -N -M 2233 -R 2222:localhost:22 remoteprint_relay@fredagscafeen.dk -v
Restart=on-failure
User=remoteprint
KillSignal=SIGINT
SendSIGKILL=no
Environment=AUTOSSH_GATETIME=0

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Then start and enable the service on the remote:
```sh
sudo systemctl enable --now remoteprinter_autossh
```


Test that we can forward port 6631 to the remote's port 631 and it works (run both command at the same time on remote):
```sh
sudo -u /usr/bin/autossh -N -M 2244 -L 6631:localhost:631 remoteprint@localhost -p 2222 -v
lpstat -h localhost:6631 -p
```

Create the file `/etc/systemd/system/remoteprinter_cups_forward.service` containing:
```ini
[Unit]
Description=Forwards port 6631 to port 631 of an AU machine
After=network-online.target
After=ssh.service
After=org.cups.cupsd.service

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/bin/autossh -N -M 2244 -L 6631:localhost:631 remoteprint@localhost -p 2222 -v
Restart=on-failure
User=remoteprint_relay
KillSignal=SIGINT
SendSIGKILL=no
Environment=AUTOSSH_GATETIME=0

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Then start and enable the service on the remote:
```sh
sudo systemctl enable --now remoteprinter_cups_forward
```

## Limit remote to only allow forwarding to port 631

Add the following at the bottom of `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` on the remote:
```sh
Match User remoteprint
	AllowTcpForwarding yes
	X11Forwarding no
	PermitTunnel no
	GatewayPorts no
	AllowAgentForwarding no
	PermitOpen localhost:631
	ForceCommand echo 'This account can only be used for printing'
```

Then reload `sshd`:

```sh
systemctl reload sshd
```

## Setting up the printers to use

The printers should be installed on the remote machine and also be entered into the database.


# API usage

### Method Overview
> - Auth
> - Items
> - Breweries
> - BeerTypes
> - Bartenders
> - Is-Bartender

### Method details

#### **Auth**
POST <host>/api/auth/

##### Request
```
{
    "username": "...",
    "password": "..."
}
```
##### Response
```
{
    "token": "...",
    "permissions": [...]
}
```
-----------------

#### **Items**
GET <host>/api/items/

##### Response
```
[
    {
        "id": 871,
        "created": "2017-06-02T13:13:49Z",
        "name": "Semiskinned Occultist",
        "description": "",
        "country": "",
        "priceInDKK": 25.0,
        "abv": null,
        "container": null,
        "volumeInCentiliters": null,
        "inStock": true,
        "imageUrl": "",
        "barcode": "",
        "lastModified": "2017-06-02T13:14:53.756808Z",
        "link": "",
        "brewery": 16,
        "type": null
    },
    ...
]
```
-----------------

#### **Breweries**
GET <host>/api/breweries/

##### Response
```
[
    {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Aarhus Bryghus",
        "description": "",
        "website": ""
    },
    ...
]
```
-----------------

#### **BeerTypes**
GET <host>/api/beerTypes/

##### Response
```
[
    {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Pilsner",
        "description": "",
        "link": ""
    },
    ...
]
```
-----------------

#### **Bartenders**
GET <host>/api/bartenders/

##### Response
```
[
    {
        "id": 45,
        "name": "Alberte Herold Hansen",
        "username": "alberte",
        "isActiveBartender": true
    },
    ...
]
```
-----------------

#### **Is-Bartender**
GET <host>/api/is-bartender/<username>/

##### Response
```
true 
```
-----------------

Commit message:

Add "After the General Meeting" section to README

README.md, after:

# After the General Meeting (WIP)

After the General Meeting some accounts and data needs to updated.
We generally add the new board members as soon as possible,
but only remove the old board members after the first board meeting.

## Before the first board meeting (as soon as possible)

- Update the board member page: https://fredagscafeen.dk/board/
- Add new board members and alternates to the best mailinglist: https://maillist.au.dk/mailman/admin/datcafe-best.cs/members/add
- Add new board members to the gitlab group with "Developer" role: https://gitlab.au.dk/groups/fredagscafeen/-/group_members

## After the first board meeting

- Update https://fredagscafeen.dk/board/ with custom titles and images
- Remove old board members and alternates from the best mailinglist: https://maillist.au.dk/mailman/admin/datcafe-best.cs/members/list
- Remove old board members from the gitlab group: https://gitlab.au.dk/groups/fredagscafeen/-/group_members
- Remove admin accounts for old board members and create admin accounts for new board members and add them to the correct groups: `dokku run fredagscafeen.dk ./manage.py update_board_member_accounts`
- Change all passwords and update dokku config: http://fredagscafeen.dk/admin/admin/logentry/secrets_view

### New web responsible

This only needs to be done, if there is a new web responsible:

- Make the new responsible's user a superuser on the website
- Add new keys to and remove old keys from `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` on the server

# Setup (WIP)

## To run project locally

1. checkout project from vcs: `git clone git@gitlab.au.dk:fredagscafeen/web.git`
2. setup virtual env (commands should be run in project folder)
  1. `pip3 install pipenv`
  2. `pipenv install`

Installing the required psycopg2 package (PostgreSQL for Python) might require the `pg_config` binary,
which can be installed on Ubuntu with `sudo apt install libpq-dev`.

3. activate virtualenv: `pipenv shell`
4. migrate database: `./manage.py migrate`
5. create superuser: `./manage.py createsuperuser`
6. run server: `./manage.py runserver`

## Deploy changes

1. Add your SSH key to dokku: `ssh root@fredagscafeen.dk "dokku ssh-keys:add $USER" < ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`
2. Add dokku remote: `git remote add dokku dokku@fredagscafeen.dk:fredagscafeen.dk`
3. `git push dokku master`

## Setup admin user on server

1. ssh into server: `ssh root@fredagscafeen.dk`
2. create superuser: `dokku run fredagscafeen.dk ./manage.py createsuperuser`
3. login to admin interface: [https://fredagscafeen.dk/admin/](https://fredagscafeen.dk/admin/)

# Fully rebuilding dokku app

If `dokku ps:rebuild fredagscafeen.dk` does not fix your problem,
you can try to completely rebuild the app from scratch by running:

```sh
dokku apps:rename fredagscafeen.dk test.fredagscafeen.dk
dokku apps:rename test.fredagscafeen.dk fredagscafeen.dk
```

# LaTeX installation

This installs TeX Live full and makes it available to the dokku django instance:

```sh
export TEXLIVE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/var/lib/dokku/data/storage/fredagscafeen-media/texlive
rm -rf "$TEXLIVE_INSTALL_PREFIX"

cd /tmp
curl -L http://mirror.ctan.org/systems/texlive/tlnet/install-tl-unx.tar.gz -o install-tl.tar.gz
tar -xzf install-tl.tar.gz
cd install-tl-*
./install-tl -scheme full -profile /dev/null -repository https://ctan.mirror.norbert-ruehl.de/systems/texlive/tlnet/
```

We need to specify a mirror located in Germany (as the server) as otherwise it defaults to some Australian mirror.

# GitLab hook for automatically updating guide PDFs

To setup do the following for each repository {guides,vedtaegter}:

* Go to Settings -> Repository -> Deploy Tokens and generate a new token.
  * Concatenate the username and password as `<username>:<password>` and save it somewhere.
* Go to Settings -> Integrations and add a new webhook:
  * URL should be `https://fredagscafeen.dk/update_hook/`
  * Secret Token should be `<username>:<password>` that you generated earlier.
  * Click Add webhook.
  * Test it by clicking Test -> Push events. You should get either a HTTP 200 response or a `Net::ReadTimeout` error.

Every time a tex file for a guide is updated, the server will recompile it and update the hosted PDF.

# Remote server printing

## Diagram

```
+----------------------------------------------------+
| htlm5 server:                                      |
|                                                    |
| autossh -N -M 2244                                 |
|         -L 6631:localhost:631                      |
|         remoteprint@localhost                      |
|         -p 2222                          <-\       |
|         -v                                 |  ssh  |
|                                            |       |
|  +-----------------------------------------|---+   |
|  | dokku web instance:                     |   |   |
|  |                                             |   |
|  |                                             |   |
|  | ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no             |   |
|  |     -i media/id_rsa                         |   |
|  |     remoteprint_relay@fredagscafeen.dk      |   |
|  |     --                                      |   |
|  |     lpstat -h localhost:6631 -E -p          |   |
|  |                                             |   |
|  +---------------------------------------------+   |
+----------------------------------------------------+
                     ^
					 |
                     |
	   (reverse ssh port-forwarding)
	                 |
                     |
+----------------------------------------------+
| remote AU server:                            |
|                                              |
| autossh -N -M 2233                           |
|         -R 2222:localhost:22                 |
|         remoteprint_relay@fredagscafeen.dk   |
|         -v                                   |
|                                              |
+----------------------------------------------+
```

## Installing autossh and cups

```sh
apt install autossh cups
systemctl disable --now cups
systemctl disable --now cups-browsed
```

## Setting up the reverse tunnel and ssh keys

Open 3 terminal windows:
* One connected to the remote machine on AU's network (remote)
* One connected to htlm5 (htlm5)
* One connected to htlm5 and inside the dokku container: `dokku run fredagscafeen.dk bash` (dokku)

Then run the following commands in order:

remote:
```sh
sudo useradd -m remoteprint
sudo mkhomedir_helper remoteprint
sudo -u remoteprint ssh-keygen
sudo cat /home/remoteprint/.ssh/id_rsa.pub # Key remote
```

dokku:
```sh
mkdir media/ssh
ssh-keygen -f media/ssh/id_rsa
cat media/ssh/id_rsa.pub # Key client
```

htlm5:
```sh
useradd -m remoteprint_relay
mkhomedir_helper remoteprint_relay
sudo -u remoteprint_relay ssh-keygen
cat /home/remoteprint_relay/.ssh/id_rsa.pub # Key relay

sudo -u remoteprint_relay sh -c 'echo "<Key remote>" >> /home/remoteprint_relay/.ssh/authorized_keys'
cat fredagscafeen-media/ssh/id_rsa.pub | sudo -u remoteprint_relay sh -c 'cat >> /home/remoteprint_relay/.ssh/authorized_keys'
```

remote:
```sh
sudo -u remoteprint sh -c 'echo "<Key relay>" >> /home/remoteprint/.ssh/authorized_keys'
```

Check that the remote can connect to the relay by running the following on the remote:
```sh
sudo -u remoteprint /usr/bin/autossh -N -M 2233 -R 2222:localhost:22 remoteprint_relay@fredagscafeen.dk -v
```

Check that we can connect to the relay and it can connect to the remote by running the following in dokku:
```sh
ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no remoteprint_relay@fredagscafeen.dk -i media/ssh/id_rsa id
ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no remoteprint_relay@fredagscafeen.dk -i media/ssh/id_rsa ssh remoteprint@localhost -p 2222 id
```

Stop the `autossh` command on the remote and create the file `/etc/systemd/system/remoteprinter_autossh.service` containing:
```ini
[Unit]
Description=Keeps a reverse tunnel to fredagscafeen.dk open
After=network-online.target
After=ssh.service
After=org.cups.cupsd.service

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/bin/autossh -N -M 2233 -R 2222:localhost:22 remoteprint_relay@fredagscafeen.dk -v
Restart=on-failure
User=remoteprint
KillSignal=SIGINT
SendSIGKILL=no
Environment=AUTOSSH_GATETIME=0

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Then start and enable the service on the remote:
```sh
sudo systemctl enable --now remoteprinter_autossh
```


Test that we can forward port 6631 to the remote's port 631 and it works (run both command at the same time on remote):
```sh
sudo -u /usr/bin/autossh -N -M 2244 -L 6631:localhost:631 remoteprint@localhost -p 2222 -v
lpstat -h localhost:6631 -p
```

Create the file `/etc/systemd/system/remoteprinter_cups_forward.service` containing:
```ini
[Unit]
Description=Forwards port 6631 to port 631 of an AU machine
After=network-online.target
After=ssh.service
After=org.cups.cupsd.service

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/bin/autossh -N -M 2244 -L 6631:localhost:631 remoteprint@localhost -p 2222 -v
Restart=on-failure
User=remoteprint_relay
KillSignal=SIGINT
SendSIGKILL=no
Environment=AUTOSSH_GATETIME=0

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Then start and enable the service on the remote:
```sh
sudo systemctl enable --now remoteprinter_cups_forward
```

## Limit remote to only allow forwarding to port 631

Add the following at the bottom of `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` on the remote:
```sh
Match User remoteprint
	AllowTcpForwarding yes
	X11Forwarding no
	PermitTunnel no
	GatewayPorts no
	AllowAgentForwarding no
	PermitOpen localhost:631
	ForceCommand echo 'This account can only be used for printing'
```

Then reload `sshd`:

```sh
systemctl reload sshd
```

## Setting up the printers to use

The printers should be installed on the remote machine and also be entered into the database.


# API usage

### Method Overview
> - Auth
> - Items
> - Breweries
> - BeerTypes
> - Bartenders
> - Is-Bartender

### Method details

#### **Auth**
POST <host>/api/auth/

##### Request
```
{
    "username": "...",
    "password": "..."
}
```
##### Response
```
{
    "token": "...",
    "permissions": [...]
}
```
-----------------

#### **Items**
GET <host>/api/items/

##### Response
```
[
    {
        "id": 871,
        "created": "2017-06-02T13:13:49Z",
        "name": "Semiskinned Occultist",
        "description": "",
        "country": "",
        "priceInDKK": 25.0,
        "abv": null,
        "container": null,
        "volumeInCentiliters": null,
        "inStock": true,
        "imageUrl": "",
        "barcode": "",
        "lastModified": "2017-06-02T13:14:53.756808Z",
        "link": "",
        "brewery": 16,
        "type": null
    },
    ...
]
```
-----------------

#### **Breweries**
GET <host>/api/breweries/

##### Response
```
[
    {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Aarhus Bryghus",
        "description": "",
        "website": ""
    },
    ...
]
```
-----------------

#### **BeerTypes**
GET <host>/api/beerTypes/

##### Response
```
[
    {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Pilsner",
        "description": "",
        "link": ""
    },
    ...
]
```
-----------------

#### **Bartenders**
GET <host>/api/bartenders/

##### Response
```
[
    {
        "id": 45,
        "name": "Alberte Herold Hansen",
        "username": "alberte",
        "isActiveBartender": true
    },
    ...
]
```
-----------------

#### **Is-Bartender**
GET <host>/api/is-bartender/<username>/

##### Response
```
true 
```
-----------------
